-Guards!
-Here.
-Punish Yan Zheng alone.
-Yes.
-Carry it out!
-Marquis…
Marquis, my husband truly knew nothing!
He doesn't know a thing.
-Marquis…
-Do it!
-Stand back!
-Hold on.
If you're going to punish him,
punish me too.
I had a part in what happened today.
What part could you have had?
Miss Bengong,
this has nothing to do with you.
I also knew that Mrs. Fan
took the prisoner.
As a physician, knowing
and not reporting makes me guilty too.
I'm just a physician.
What does it matter
if I'm beaten to death?
These are military regulations.
Military regulations?
Then I should kneel first.
Wait!
Marquis.
Something happened at the cave.
Shi Yue sent several top experts.
They tunneled through the wall
trying to rescue Sui Yuanqing.
If Mrs. Fan hadn't moved him just in time,
that bastard might already be free.
Yes, Mrs. Fan acted
without authorization and violated orders,
but she also protected the hostage.
If you ask me,
that's merit offsetting fault.
Don't you think, Mar…
Don't you think, Marquis?
Since both the Strategist
and the Imperial Physician are pleading
on her behalf,
merit offsetting fault?
Yan Zheng,
what do you think?
Thank you, Marquis.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
Mrs. Fan is no ordinary woman.
You should've seen it.
Bags of salt, weight 50 or 60 jin,
all four of them on her shoulders at once.
Carrying salt bags,
holding a roast whole lamb,
running faster than anyone.
That heroic figure
-is like a goddess descending to earth.
-Really?
I also heard that
when Mrs. Fan was moving bricks
at the Wu River camp,
-she could carry 300 jin at a time.
-How much?
-Three hundred jin.
-That much?
-Who'd you hear that from?
-Incredible.
-One basket was 300 jin.
-No way!
She could carry two baskets by herself.
Six hundred jin.
-Six hundred jin?
-Oh my…
Is there really someone that incredible?
I recognize you now.
You're the Pig Squad that earned merit
following Mrs. Fan.
Pig-Slaughter Squad.
Right. The Pig-Slaughter Squad.
-Come, brother, have a seat.
-Please take a seat.
Come, have a seat.
So that night,
pitch black, wind howling,
Mrs. Fan suddenly sensed
movement outside the camp.
Then, bam, one kick, and she burst through
that wooden door
bolted shut with iron chains.
Mrs. Fan,
with one kick, she smashed
through the camp gate.
Alone on horseback, she chased ten miles
and killed the scouts.
She kicked open
the camp's iron gate with one blow,
-ran 80 miles without stopping,
-Eighty miles?
and with one clean slice, came back
carrying the heads of three scouts.
Mrs. Fan used to be a butcher.
Everyone in Lin'an Town knew her.
One slap
and she could knock out a big fat pig.
Back then, she was magnificent,
heroic and bold.
When fighting bandits,
she took on a hundred all by herself
and never fell behind.
She once kicked open a city gate.
Thousands of bandit troops at the gate
couldn't hold against her alone.
She charged into Shi Hu's camp alone,
carrying four bags of salt,
five bags of rice,
six baskets of vegetables,
and four roast whole lambs,
like she was walking through
an empty field.
I also heard
she killed a bear with one slap.
One good woman like that is worth ten men.
She's really something.
Her husband is one lucky guy.
But
her husband's pretty badly hurt this time.
Keeps coughing up blood.
Might not make it.
He's dying.
He's been moved to a private tent.
Even if he survives,
he'll still be in bad shape.
No wonder Mrs. Fan
only grabbed meat this time.
She must be making
her husband his last meal.
Now that's loyalty and love.
Sister.
Smelled the aroma
and followed it here, huh?
Once the mutton soup is ready,
I'll save you a bowl.
Where's your big brother
and that pig squad of his?
While they're not around,
there's something I want to tell you.
Well…
Go ahead.
-I heard…
-Changyu.
You're cooking.
You arrived at just the right time.
-When it's ready, I'll bring you a bowl.
-Good.
-Go ahead.
-Smells wonderful.
This kid…
Changyu,
I heard you once kicked open a city gate.
Who could kick open a city gate?
And I also heard
you grabbed a lamb
to make your husband his last meal.
They're just talking nonsense.
Don't listen to them.
Talking nonsense?
If word of this
reaches the Marquis of Wu'an,
he might just have their heads cut off.
That seems a bit extreme.
The Marquis of Wu'an,
apart from his slight stutter,
seems like a decent sort to me.
After all, he didn't
make things hard for us.
I don't have anything good
to thank him with,
but I made some
mutton soup, some braised meat,
and a few stir-fried dishes.
I'll have you take them to him.
You don't blame
the Marquis of Wu'an anymore?
How could I blame him?
Every trade has its rules.
Even us pig butchers
have our way of doing things. We don't
throw in extras when selling pork,
let alone when it comes to war.
This time, I acted on my own.
Luckily, reinforcements came to help.
If they hadn't,
I might have died along with that bastard.
What a waste that would've been.
Next time, I'll follow orders.
Fight wherever I'm assigned.
To have a wife like you,
he must have accumulated good fortune
over several lifetimes.
Here, let me help you.
Here, try a bowl.
Okay.
-Here.
-See if it needs more salt.
-Okay.
XIE
Yan Zheng.
Eat up.
Get your strength back.
Aren't you eating?
I couldn't resist while I was cooking.
Already ate my fill.
Your wounds aren't fully healed yet.
You need to eat more…
and recover properly.
Today,
when the Marquis of Wu'an punished us,
aren't you angry?
The Marquis was right to discipline us.
The Pig-Slaughter Squad and I
got off easy this time
only because we were lucky.
Later, I'll ask Mr. Gongsun
about the military regulations.
I promise it won't happen again.
And if that Marquis of Wu'an
wants to punish you again,
tell him to come to me.
You're wounded.
You can't take another punishment.
I can take a beating.
You've changed.
Back in Lin'an,
you'd never admit you were wrong.
After everything that's happened,
how could I still be
that little butcher girl who only knew
how to slaughter pigs and sell meat?
As long as I get to beat the hell out
of that bastard Sui Yuanqing in the end,
I'll follow whatever rules they want.
Good. I promise you.
What for?
It's not like you're the one
calling the shots.
Whatever you say,
I'll agree to it.
You need to drink this medicine
while it's hot too.
Oh,
when I was working on the dam,
I met an old gentleman.
He's tough on the outside but soft inside.
To save me,
he even swapped
the life-and-death lots with me.
If he did you a kindness,
I'll give him a promotion or two
in the future.
What could you possibly promote him to?
I meant…
in the future.
You're that confident
you'll become a general someday?
If…
Just saying if…
If someday
I become an official
even bigger than a general?
What kind of official?
Like…
being ennobled as a marquis.
Ennobled as a marquis.
Then this pig-slaughtering woman
would be a marchioness, wouldn't I?
Would you want that?
Of course I would.
Only a fool would say no
to something that good.
Eat sparingly.
I don't have many left.
Come in.
He's the strategist and your boss.
Talking to him like that,
aren't you afraid he'll hold a grudge?
There's so much going on in the army.
Can't stand on ceremony all the time.
Right?
Right. Military affairs come first.
You two talk. I'll go heat some water.
Our plan worked.
I heard you received
an urgent dispatch from Lucheng.
Prince Changxin should be
gathering his main force.
Probably planning a swift strike.
Shi Yue and his rebel forces
are shooting arrows
at Sui Yuanqing without restraint.
That changes the nature
of the hostage situation.
Before, they held back
fearing for the hostage.
So a thousand of us are able
to hold off thirty grand of the enemy.
But from what we saw today,
that hostage isn't worth much anymore.
Looks like…
the decisive battle is imminent.
Brother,
the heir has made his position clear.
He told us not to worry about him,
just charge forward as planned.
But that's the heir.
How can we just stand by and watch?
Today in battle,
he was accidentally wounded.
You and I both know his nature.
He never forgets a grudge,
goes off at the slightest thing.
He won't let this…
go quietly.
You mean,
after this,
the heir won't go easy on us?
Brother, the old prince's orders
are ironclad.
If we fail this mission,
our lives are forfeit anyway, Brother.
If something happens to the heir,
even if we secure the Prince's cause,
once the heir takes the throne,
our lives won't be worth living.
We're stuck with this blame.
Brother, no more hesitation.
Make a call.
Fine.
Tomorrow, we attack with full force.
Best case, we get the heir back.
If not,
we take Xie Zheng's head
back to the Prince and answer for it.
What's going on?
Can't we talk here?
What's with all the secrecy?
Sister,
I heard we're going into battle
in a few days.
This is all the silver
I've saved since joining the army.
And some that my brother gave me when
I was hanging around the gambling den.
You hold onto it for me.
Why not give it to your brother? Why me?
My brother's going into battle too.
You're not.
You're the safest one to keep it.
Bullets and blades have no eyes.
If I die out there,
please take this silver home
to my little sister.
-Okay.
-You're trying to make me angry?
Who told you to say such unlucky things?
What's all this about dying?
Don't say another word.
Do you know who your sister is?
I got you all out safely.
I'll get you all back safely.
Every single one.
You keep it yourself.
If you leave it with me,
when I go back to Lin'an,
I'll spend it all on pigs.
Not a single coin left for you.
Then… I'd be happy to buy pigs
for you, dear sister.
Go to sleep now.
No more of this nonsense.
Got it, Sister.
All troops, assemble!
Move it.
Hurry.
Stay close together.
Headmaster Gongsun,
is everything in order…
for this campaign?
Rest assured,
everything has been arranged properly.
No need to worry.
Your Highness.
I must depart.
Take this chess manual.
Keep it safe.
HIDDEN PRINCIPLES OF QI
When I was young, I once saw
a fragment of a chess manual
called Hidden Principles of Qi.
This book,
the Gongsun family library
does have a complete edition.
But it's my grandfather's
treasured possession.
Not allowed to be lent out.
On the battlefield,
swords and arrows have no eyes.
Headmaster, you must be careful.
With all these Xie soldiers protecting me,
I'm sure I'll be fine.
Besides, if I can't win, I'll just run.
I await your…
safe return, Headmaster.
Brave sons of Dayin,
all of you
must also return safely.
Marquis, the advance team
has deployed with the Strategist.
Last night, the rebels
secretly positioned
some of their troops in ambush.
Depart immediately.
Once the enemy is trapped,
press the advantage and pursue.
Understood.
Marquis.
Mrs. Fan is here.
You go ahead. I'll follow shortly.
-Yes, sir.
General Wu, General Jiu.
Madam.
Your wound is still seeping blood.
It's just a minor wound, nothing serious.
Let me.
Yan Zheng,
how about I go to battle in your place?
Don't be silly.
Your wounds aren't healed yet.
On the battlefield, you won't
even be able to lift your blade.
What then?
I'm just an infantry swordsman.
My job is to clear the battlefield,
mop up the remnants.
Nothing dangerous.
Then be careful out there.
Wait for me.
The medicine's getting cold.
Drink it while it's hot.
Okay.
Oh,
and which infantry swordsman unit
are you in?
Who's your commanding officer?
Left Guard, Third Battalion.
Why do you ask?
Nothing.
Just asking.
If something happens…
take care of Changning for me.
You…
Yan Zheng.
I can't let anything happen to you.
Emergency assembly!
Quick!
Move it!
Wait for me.
Here.
Ning,
remember what I told you.
Boss.
That's Sister.
What are you doing here?
Yeah, Sister. What are you doing here?
What are you playing at?
Sister, please go back, okay?
The battlefield is brutal.
You could die at any moment.
Have you forgotten what happened
when the dam broke?
I remember.
That's why I can't let Yan Zheng
go to battle.
I drugged him.
If I don't take his place,
he really will become a deserter.
You…
Why are you so protective of him?
Why don't you think
about yourself for once?
This is war.
Exactly.
I know it's war.
I'm just going to fill a spot.
Once we get to the battlefield,
we'll find a chance to cut off
a pair of ears from a dead body.
That way, if the higher-ups find out,
we can prove we fought.
It's not that easy.
It's not that easy!
Let me ask you.
Who here has been to war before?
Never been.
-And the battlefield is so dangerous.
-What's all the noise?
Which squad are you from?
How'd you end up in my unit?
We're from Left Guard, Third Battalion.
Responsible for mopping up the remnants.
-Third Battalion?
-Yes.
Left Guard?
There is no Third Battalion here.
There's only our Vanguard.
Little one,
you're not an impostor, are you?
Watch your mouth.
-What are you implying?
-The army's about to march.
What's all this noise?
Master Wu,
these people…
This…
-All troops,
-What are you doing here?
Assemble!
General Wu, my husband is badly wounded.
Please, for the sake of brotherhood,
pretend you didn't see this.
When I return from this battle
with military merit,
even if someone tries to charge
Yan Zheng, it won't matter.
The Mar…
Would your husband agree to this?
-I drugged him.
-You…
How could you be so reckless?
Do you have any idea
how important he is to today's battle?
He's not even a squad leader.
How important could he be?
At most, he'd kill a few more enemies.
In his current condition,
he's worse off than I am.
Where is he? I'm going to find him.
It's too late.
The drug is strong.
He'll be out for a while.
Shi Yue's men
have torn a gap in the vanguard.
By the Strategist's order,
the Left Guard
is to reinforce immediately.
Hyah!
-Vanguard, left flank, attention!
-Here.
-Full speed.
-Yes, sir.
You, go to the right flank reserve.
You few, protect her.
Got it.
Quick, inform the Marquis.
Tell him his wife
has gone to the battlefield.
Gongsun Yin!
You dare come down
and face me in single combat?
Let's settle this!
I'm a scholar, naturally no match for you.
The Marquis of Wu'an is waiting
to have tea with General Shi Yue.
Got to say,
Mrs. Fan's tactic of riling them up
works pretty well.
This is outrageous!
Gongsun Yin,
you coward!
Why don't you come down
and fight like a man?
As you wish.
Reserve Battalion, assemble!
-Hurry!
-Even the reserves are going in?
What kind of state must the front be in?
Reserve Battalion, assemble!
Quick!
Assemble!
How should we fight this battle?
We should focus on staying alive.
Man Di,
when we get on the battlefield,
stick close to me.
Don't get lost.
If things get really bad, hide behind me.
Okay, Sister.
After this battle,
we can go home
and have a good meal, right?
Probably.
Let's just stay alive first.
No more talk!
Await orders from the front.
Look, fog.
There's blood in the fog.
All troops, on alert. Draw swords.
Don't stay where you are. Charge out!
Move!
47, 48,
49, 50.
One, two…
Brother-in-law, why are you awake?
Sister told me to count to 1,000
and then poke you awake.
But I don't know how to count to 1,000.
She said when I get to 50,
I put down a stone.
I need to save up 20 stones.
Why did you wake up early?
Brother-in-law?
Xie Jiu.
Xie Jiu!
-Marquis, there you are!
-What's going on?
The battle situation is critical.
Shi Yue has indeed abandoned Sui Yuanqing.
Shi Hu is slaughtering a path through.
We can't hold much longer.
Where did Sister go?
Mrs. Fan…
is on the front lines.
Marquis, are you alright?
Ning, turn around.
Okay.
Five, six,
seven, eight,
nine, ten.
-Bring me my armor.
-Yes, sir.
A good pig in this life.
Be a good person in the next.
A few of you, go smash those catapults.
Don't just stand there. Charge!
Charge.
Charge!
Marchioness.
The Yanzhou army is useless.
Not a single one worth fighting.
General Wu.
Tell the Marquis of Wu'an
to come out and die.
If you don't hand it over,
your heir won't be an heir anymore.
You're that woman who humiliated
the heir the other day.
Coming to battle with a little knife,
who do you think you're mocking?
Today, I'm going to smash you into a pulp.
Fan, you okay?
Die!
Fan!
Shi Hu is dead! We've won!
Fan, you alright?
We've won!
Look, it's the Marquis of Wu'an!
The Marquis is here!
Marquis of Wu'an.
Marquis of Wu'an!
Does he look like…
A little.
It's…
The more I look,
the more he looks like him.
Oh no.
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS FILM
Subtitle translation by: Wanjiao Song